The White House held private meetings with four Cabinet-level officials last month to scold them for embarrassing stories about questionable ethical behavior at their respective agencies, sources familiar with the sessions tell CNN.
Internal watchdogs have launched at least nine audits, reviews or investigations across several Cabinet agencies, and stories about first-class travel, expensive office furniture, and internal strife have become commonplace.
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson, Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt all met with officials from the White House counsel's office and the Cabinet liaison.
The meetings, held at chief of staff John Kelly's request, were intended to provide "a clear message that optics matter," the sources said.
The White House gave the agencies a set of guidelines in a document titled "creating a culture of compliance," according to portions of the document obtained by CNN.
Among the highlighted advice:
• "You are the best guardian of your reputation. Your recordkeeping practices must be designed with a purpose to prove innocence at the complaint phase or with the press."
• "Even if legal, does not mean you should do it -- always consider optics."
• "Optics questions: Does the event or travel further the President's priorities, your department or agency's mission; or, does it appear recreational or entertainment in nature."
• "Remember, an ethics opinion matters only if the ethics officer received all of the information."
The White House declined to comment.
During the meetings, the White House officials asked agencies to flag any possible problems, including ongoing investigations or audits.
But shortly after the session with Zinke, CNN published a report with several examples that ethics watchdogs say raise questions about whether Zinke is misusing his travel privileges, despite receiving approval from the department's lawyer and ethics officer.
The White House was disappointed after meeting with Zinke because his agency failed to mention the story, of which Interior was aware and quoted a department spokesperson on the record, the source familiar told CNN.
Asked about the White House's unhappiness, an Interior spokesperson who declined to be named, "this is such a nothing-burger."
The person added, "Cabinet secretaries and staff meet with the White House constantly about a number of issues to include advancing policy priorities and strategy."
In his meeting, VA Secretary Shulkin was told he could no longer discuss purging agency employees after he told Politico he had permission from the White House to remove insubordinates. He was also advised that stories about "palace intrigue" were unacceptable, a source familiar said.
When asked about the meeting, the VA public affairs office replied in a statement: "President Trump tasked Secretary Shulkin with reforming the VA so it could better serve the men and women who sacrificed to protect our country. Many reforms have already been enacted, many more are still needed, but nothing will distract the President, the Secretary and the Department from finding the best ways to provide care and benefits to our country's heroes."
EPA spokesman Jahan Wilcox denied CNN's characterization of Pruitt's White House meeting.
"This is entirely untrue," Wilcox said. "Administrator Pruitt has regular meetings with a number of officials at the White House. Throughout those meetings, the White House has offered continued support of EPA, to help the Agency succeed in furthering the President's environmental agenda."
HUD did not respond to a request for comment.
Last week, Carson canceled a $31,000 dining room furniture purchase after a whistleblower said she was demoted when she refused to break the law and overspend for redecorating Carson's office. The agency has denied the allegations. HUD's inspector general is also looking into the role Carson's family has played in department business.
It's unclear what answers the agencies provided when asked to spot potential problems, but there are open reviews and inquiries across several agencies.
EPA's internal watchdog is investigating the frequency, cost and extent of Pruitt's travel following reports of his many flights to his home state of Oklahoma and that he used taxpayer funds on first-class flights and luxury hotels that exceeded his predecessors. EPA has cited security concerns as the reason Pruitt flies first class.
Zinke's travel is also under investigation by both the Office of Special Counsel and the Interior Department's inspector general, including a visit he had with a hockey team owned by a former donor to his 2014 campaign.
Interior Dept. explains $139K doors for secretary's office
The VA's inspector general recently released a damning report about Shulkin's July 2017 trip to Europe. The report concluded that Shulkin misused taxpayer funds and inappropriately accepted Wimbledon tickets, and that his then-chief of staff doctored an email to justify the department paying for his wife's airfare to accompany him. Shulkin has said he intends to comply with all the IG recommendations, even though he disagreed with them.
In addition, multiple sources tell CNN that the secretary had been locked in battle with a group of Trump administration officials, who Shulkin says have been working to push him out of the department.
A pair of Senate Democrats are raising concerns over a potential business conflict within the Environmental Protection Agency with a member of EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt's security team and an outside security firm.
In a letter to Pruitt, Sens. Thomas Carper of Delaware and Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island ask for additional information on Pasquale "Nino" Perrotta, who is employed at the EPA and is a principal at Sequoia Security Group.
According to the letter dated Tuesday, one of Perrotta's business associates had a security contract with the EPA last year.
"These facts raise questions about Mr. Perrotta's compliance with EPA regulations and concerns that he may have used his position at the agency to influence the award of EPA contracts to a person or company in which he has a financial interest," the letter says.
The Washington Post reported Tuesday that Perrotta encouraged EPA officials to contract with his fellow business associate from Sequoia Security Group, according to an administration official who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal agency decisions.
Sequoia Security Group did not immediately respond to CNN's request for comment.
The Associated Press first reported that Edwin Steinmetz was hired by the EPA to do a security sweep of the administrator's office, but his business ties to Perrotta weren't initially reported on.
"Mr. Steinmetz is Vice President of Technical Surveillance Countermeasures at Sequoia; in other words, he is a business partner of Mr. Perrotta," the senators' letter reads. It requests answers to a series of questions to "understand how EPA is ensuring that Mr. Perrotta is complying" with conflict of interest laws.
Pruitt has until March 21 to respond to their questions, according to the letter.
The doors to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke's office are getting a nearly $139,000 upgrade.
The Interior Department confirmed the project Thursday, saying it is both necessary to replace old doors that are in "disrepair" and attributing the high cost to the historical nature of the building.
News of the $138,670 contract comes as several agencies are facing scrutiny over excessive spending. Last month, Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson withdrew an order for pricey dining room furniture, including a $31,000 table. Zinke is also under fire for questionable travel habits.
Zinke was unaware of the expense for the doors, Interior spokeswoman Heather Swift said, saying the project was driven by "career facilities and security officials" as part of a decade-long modernization of the 1930s building.
"The secretary was not aware of this contract but agrees that this is a lot of money for demo, install, materials, and labor," Swift said in a statement. "Between regulations that require historic preservation and outdated government procurement rules, the costs for everything from pencils to printing to doors is astronomical. This is a perfect example of why the secretary believes we need to reform procurement processes."
The new doors will be made of fiberglass. The previous sets of doors have been damaged for years, according to an Interior official, to the point where wind and water come into the office during inclement weather, which in turn damaged the historic hardwood floors. Damage has caused bottom panels to fall out and be "replaced with cardboard and duct tape," the official said.
The Associated Press previously reported on the door contract Thursday.
"What a waste. Just think how many dining sets you could have bought or private jets you could have chartered with that money," Rep. Adam Schiff, D-California, joked on Twitter.
The Department of Housing and Urban Development's inspector general is looking into the role HUD Secretary Ben Carson's family has played at the agency, a spokesman told CNN.
Carson called earlier this month for the inspector general to "review" the role his family has played at the department after The Washington Post reported that HUD officials expressed ethics concerns about their role. Carson's son and daughter-in-law helped organize a listening tour for the agency in Baltimore last summer.
RELATED: Emails show Carson family fingerprints at HUD despite warnings
Asked Tuesday by CNN whether HUD's Inspector General has opened an investigation into the role Carson's family has played at the department, HUD IG spokesman Darryl Madden said there is "an open matter."
"We have an open matter," Madden said. "However, it is our policy not to comment any further during its pendency."
Madden declined to clarify the statement, responding to follow-up questions by saying: "We are standing by the statement."
HUD spokesman Jereon Brown referred questions on the investigation's launch to the inspector general's office. "We have nothing to add to the previous statement requesting the investigation," Brown said in an email.
Carson asked for an IG investigation after media reports about the Baltimore listening tour.
The department's lawyers warned that Carson's son's participation might risk violating federal ethics rules and the department's deputy general counsel raised those concerns directly with Carson, according to an internal memo released publicly through the Freedom of Information Act. Linda Cruciani, the deputy general counsel, left the meeting believing Carson' son and daughter-in-law would not participate in the listening tour.
"In my role as HUD secretary, I try to be as inclusive as possible and talk with a wide variety of people because when it comes to increasing access to affordable housing, no rock should remain unturned," Carson said in a statement earlier this month. "From my very first day at HUD I have insisted that HUD operate in an open and ethical manner, in every way. To clear up any suspicion I am calling for the HUD inspector general to review this matter."
Carson would be the sixth Cabinet-level member of President Donald Trump's administration to be the subject of an inspector general's investigation concerning federal ethics rules.
VA Secretary David Shulkin most recently came under fire after a report revealed that his wife improperly traveled with him on an international trip at the government's expense. Shulkin's chief of staff resigned in the wake of a damning inspector general's report on the matter, which Shulkin repudiated.
Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price resigned in September after reports revealed he unnecessarily chartered expensive private flights.
In the weeks since a sharply critical inspector general report faulted Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin with misusing taxpayer funds and amid reports of an agency rife with tension and infighting, Shulkin has maintained that he is fully in control, insisting that he has "no tolerance" for those who try to distract from the department's mission.
But on Capitol Hill, lawmakers seem frustrated by a steady stream of events that have put more attention on the agency's internal squabbles than the veterans it seeks to serve.
Two top Democrats on the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee -- Jon Tester of Montana and Sen. Patty Murray of Washington -- each pointed to "chaos" and "infighting" at the department.
"I'm deeply concerned by reports of chaos at the highest levels of VA, which seems to be a trademark of this Administration," Murray, who was briefed on Thursday by department Inspector General Michael Missal on Thursday about the investigation, said in a statement. "That chaos is a huge disservice to millions of veterans across the country who deserve a department that is fully focused on serving their needs."
Cassie Byerly, a spokeswoman for Tester, said that "veterans deserve better than a VA that's crippled by infighting."
Asked whether Tester still backed Shulkin, Byerly said that America's veterans need leaders at the Veterans Affairs Department and in the White House focused on ending the department's Veterans Choice Program and ensuring veterans have access to quality care.
"That means we need a secretary who works for our veterans, not for the Koch Brothers," she said.
Shulkin has been working to clear his name and restore confidence in his leadership since the inspector general report found that he and senior members of his staff misled agency ethics officials and that Shulkin misused taxpayer funds.
Shulkin has taken issue with the report, calling it "entirely inaccurate," but has said he would follow all inspector general recommendations and has already repaid the US Treasury for his wife's travel. He has said that he regrets that the matter has taken the focus off the department's mission.
He has also said that the Europe trip, which included a veterans mental health conference as well as sightseeing and a Wimbledon match, was essential to his job.
But it is also unclear whether he has full control of his agency as power struggles over competing policy priorities between Shulkin and Trump appointees spill into the open.
Those include the departure of Shulkin's chief of staff, who was named in the IG investigation, and reports that two White House advisers were meeting with key veterans groups to discuss policy issues without the presence of Shulkin's key aides.
The latest signal of turmoil came Wednesday when USA Today and The Washington Post each reported that John Ullyot, a senior aide at the department, tried to get a top House Veterans' Affairs Committee staffer to encourage members to demand the resignation of Shulkin, and his deputy secretary, Thomas Bowman. Ullyot was joined on the call by the department's press secretary, Curt Cashour, the newspapers reported.
Ullyot and Cashour in a joint statement provided to reporters disputed the characterization of the call and said the allegation was "ridiculous."
Amanda Maddox, a spokeswoman for Sen. Johnny Isakson, the chairman of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, told CNN that Isakson still "strongly supports" Shulkin, but did not respond to a request for comment on Shulkin's aides reportedly attempting to oust him. Tiffany Haverly, communications director for House Veterans' Affairs Committee Chairman Rep. Phil Roe, said that Roe has said "both publicly and privately, on multiple occasions, that the secretary and deputy secretary have his full support."
So far, just one lawmaker -- Colorado Republican Rep. Mike Coffman, a member of the House Veterans Affairs panel -- has called for Shulkin's resignation. On Wednesday, he called on President Donald Trump to remove Shulkin from his job, saying that Shulkin "clearly lacks the moral authority to lead the VA" and the integrity expected of a member of Trump's Cabinet.
Shulkin was at the White House on Thursday -- alongside two other embattled Cabinet heads -- for a White House summit on the opioid epidemic, a chief policy priority of the Trump administration.
During the daily briefing, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said that Shulkin was "glad for the job [Shulkin] is doing to reform and modernize the VA," and that the President supported that work. She added that the White House is reviewing Shulkin and his wife's travel expenses, to ensure that Shulkin is "being responsible with taxpayer dollars."
A newly obtained email from President Donald Trump's personal attorney to the lawyer for the porn star who is suing Trump includes Michael Cohen's autosignature with his full title: executive vice president and special counsel to Donald J. Trump. The email also refers to Cohen's office being closed.
The email, which was exclusively obtained by CNN's "Anderson Cooper 360," is a response to Stephanie Clifford's lawyer around the time of a $130,000 payment made just weeks before the 2016 election in exchange for her silence about an alleged affair.
Clifford, also known as Stormy Daniels, filed a lawsuit against Trump this week over a nondisclosure agreement she now claims is void regarding the alleged sexual encounter between the two in 2006.
The email exchange between the two attorneys consists of Clifford's attorney at the time asking Cohen, "We good?"
Cohen responds: "Yes. It's Yom Kippur so the office is for all purposes closed. I am in tomorrow but can speak for the next 3 hours via cell if necessary (sic)."
Clifford's attorney, Michael Avenatti, provided the email to CNN and said he believes this is further proof that Cohen was acting in his professional capacity as Trump's attorney in his negotiations and agreement with Clifford, and not on his own behalf.
"It appears to be rather innocuous when you look at it. We assert it is not innocuous because if in fact the payment was being made personally by attorney Cohen, he wouldn't need the office open in order to effectuate the payment," Avenatti told Anderson Cooper.
Cohen has previously said, "Neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign was a party to the transaction with Ms. Clifford."
Avenatti said the email exchange happened during a time period when the two sides were discussing payment to Daniels.
In the lawsuit filed Tuesday, Clifford claims that when Trump was running for office and multiple women were coming forward to share stories of their own alleged encounters with the then-Republican presidential candidate, Cohen intervened in an attempt to keep her from coming forward as well.
Avenatti also claims Cohen has attempted multiple times to quiet Clifford, as recently as this week.
Earlier Friday, CNN reported that Cohen used funds from his own home equity line to make the $130,000 payment to Clifford on Trump's behalf.
"The funds were taken from my home equity line and transferred internally to my LLC account in the same bank," Cohen said in a statement.
Cohen also confirmed that he used his Trump Organization email account to communicate details of a payment transfer to Clifford. He added that he regularly used his business email account for personal matters.
"I sent emails from the Trump Org email address to my family, friends as well as Trump business emails. I basically used it for everything. I am certain most people can relate," he said.
President Donald Trump's personal lawyer used funds from his own home equity line to make a $130,000 payment to porn star Stormy Daniels on Trump's behalf, he told CNN.
"The funds were taken from my home equity line and transferred internally to my LLC account in the same bank," Michael Cohen said in a statement.
Cohen also confirmed that he used his Trump Organization email account to communicate details of a payment transfer to Stephanie Clifford, the adult film star known as Stormy Daniels, who allegedly had an affair with the President before his time in office.
Earlier Friday, Clifford's lawyer, Michael Avenatti, provided an email to CNN in which Cohen confirmed the transfer to Daniels' former attorney, Keith Davidson. In the email, both Cohen's personal email account and trumporg.com email account were used. The deposit was confirmed to Cohen by a First Republic Bank employee.
Cohen responded later Friday, saying that he regularly used his business email account for personal matters.
"I sent emails from the Trump Org email address to my family, friends as well as Trump business emails. I basically used it for everything. I am certain most people can relate," he said.
Avenatti, speaking on MSNBC, said Cohen's use of his business email to conduct this transaction could be an indication that he was acting in an official capacity as a legal counsel to Trump when he transferred the money to Clifford.
While this development brings the payment to Clifford closer to Trump himself, it is not proof that he knew about it. Any involvement by Trump would indicate the payment was an in-kind campaign contribution which was not disclosed to the Federal Election Commission, which would be a violation of federal law, according to Paul S. Ryan, a campaign finance attorney who works for Common Cause.
The email does not say where the funds originated from.
NBC News first reported Cohen's use of the email account.
The day after the email, Cohen wired money from First Republic Bank to Davidson's bank account, according to NBC News.
Davidson did not respond to a request for comment from CNN. First Republic Bank declined to comment to the network.
Trump's 2017 financial disclosures listed an account at First Republic Bank, valued between $15,001 and $50,000.
Cohen also regularly used that same email account to negotiate with Clifford last year before she signed a nondisclosure agreement, NBC News reported.
Last month, Cohen said he wired Clifford $130,000 of his own money right before the 2016 election in exchange for her silence about the alleged affair.
Cohen said Friday that he is in the midst of a "witch hunt," saying, "These incessant attacks against me are meritless and are concocted by the liberal mainstream media to continue to malign our President and distract the country from his historic achievements over the past year. This witch hunt has now gone from ludicrous to insane."
He has denied the Trump Organization's involvement in the payment, and both Cohen and the White House have denied any sexual encounter between the President and Clifford.
"In a private transaction in 2016, I used my own personal funds to facilitate a payment of $130,000 to Ms. Stephanie Clifford," Cohen said in a statement in February. "Neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign was a party to the transaction with Ms. Clifford, and neither reimbursed me for the payment, either directly or indirectly."
White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said Wednesday that "arbitration was won in the President's favor" regarding the case. The statement is an admission that the nondisclosure agreement exists and that it directly involves Trump. It was the first time the White House had admitted the President was involved in any way with Clifford.
Clifford filed suit against Trump on Tuesday, alleging that he never signed a hush agreement regarding the alleged affair and therefore the agreement is void.
 When adult film star Jessica Drake accused Donald Trump of sexual misconduct a month before the presidential election, Trump said through a spokesperson that he didn't know the woman and had "no interest in ever knowing her."
Less than a week later, a woman named Angel Ryan was listed in a secret settlement agreement negotiated by Trump's personal attorney as having "confidential information" about the then-Republican nominee.
The two occurrences may appear unrelated. But there is a connection: Drake, the woman who accused Trump, and Ryan, the woman named in the non-disparagement agreement, are the same person, according to interviews and documents reviewed by CNN.
The connection raises new questions about the circumstances surrounding the controversial agreement in which Trump attorney Michael Cohen sought to protect his longtime client and friend.
The Wall Street Journal was first to report the news that Cohen paid adult film star Stephanie Clifford $130,000 to keep quiet about an alleged affair with Trump.
Earlier this week, Clifford, who performs under the name Stormy Daniels, sued the President in Los Angeles Superior Court seeking to void the agreement, which she attached to her complaint.
In a section dealing with "prior disclosures" of "confidential information," the agreement cites four people with whom Clifford had already shared such information.
One of them was Angel Ryan.
Online records reviewed by CNN show that Ryan obtained a trademark registration for the name Jessica Drake.
Gloria Allred, Ryan's attorney, confirmed the link for CNN.
"Jessica Drake is still my client. She is Angel Ryan and the one whose name is in the settlement agreement," Allred told CNN. She said her client was never contacted about Clifford's settlement agreement.
Allred would not comment on Ryan's relationship with Clifford, or the timing of her 2016 disclosure being so close to the drafting of Clifford's agreement.
Both Clifford and Ryan worked for Wicked Entertainment and both said they attended a 2006 golf outing in Lake Tahoe, also attended by Trump.
Clifford said in this week's court filing that she began "an intimate relationship" with Trump that summer, which continued into 2007.
At the press conference in October 2016, Ryan, joined by Allred, said she was subjected to unwanted sexual advances by Trump at the golf tournament. She said he kissed her without asking and offered to pay her for sex.
Trump campaign officials denied the allegations and said the candidate did not know his accuser.
Six days later, Drake's real name appeared in the agreement related to Clifford.
Cohen has publicly acknowledged using his own money to facilitate the payment to Clifford in the weeks before the presidential election. He said Trump had no knowledge that he was planning do so or had done so. He said Trump "vehemently denies" Clifford's allegations.
The agreement specified three other people with whom Clifford had shared "confidential information." They are an ex-husband, a business manager, and a photographer.
All three either declined comment or could not be reached.
There is pervasive anxiety inside the walls of the White House over the fallout around allegations leveled against President Donald Trump by porn actress Stormy Daniels, multiple sources tell CNN, with some officials worried that the salacious accusations and tangled legal fight could dwarf past controversies.
The story of the pair's alleged 2006 relationship blends the scandalous details of an affair, a bungled attempt to silence the porn actress and the President's penchant for a larger-than-life lifestyle before he entered the White House, a combination that seems too combustible not to further entangle the Trump administration.
For weeks, top White House aides -- with the help of Trump's longtime attorney -- have fought to keep the scandal around the President and Daniels outside the walls of the West Wing. Until Wednesday, the President's aides had shut down any questions about Daniels, denying the allegations against Trump and distancing the White House from any litigation.
That became untenable by Thursday, a day after White House press secretary Sarah Sanders tacitly acknowledged that Trump was party to a suit involving Daniels, repeatedly telling reporters that "the arbitration was won in the President's favor."
The admission drew the men and women running the White House fully into the controversy around Trump's alleged affair with Daniels months after his wife, Melania, had given birth to their son.
Unlike with past answers, Sanders was unable to deflect repeated inquiries at Wednesday's press briefing and, speaking about what was meant to be a secret court order, openly admitted that the agreement involved the President.
"I can share that the arbitration was won in the President's favor," Sanders told reporters. "I would refer you to the President's outside counsel on any details beyond that."
Lawsuit
The questions came a day after Daniels sued Trump in Los Angeles Superior Court, where a lawyer for the porn actress alleged that the President failed to sign the nondisclosure agreement brokered by his longtime lawyer Michael Cohen, thereby nullifying it. The lawsuit also claims Cohen "surreptitiously initiated a bogus arbitration proceeding against Ms. Clifford in Los Angeles" without notifying her beforehand.
The statement that the arbitration was won "in the President's favor" is an admission that the nondisclosure agreement exists and that it directly involves the President. It was the first time the White House had admitted the President was involved in any way with Daniels and it represented a break in how the White House had previously responded to questions about her.
The disclosure was an uncharacteristic slip by Sanders, whose team has largely deflected questions about Daniels for the last month by claiming they had been "asked and answered" during the 2016 campaign.
Aides inside the White House were less than enthusiastic about responding to the ever-growing list of questions from reporters about the affair.
One concern is how the story has already overshadowed the White House's day-to-day work, leaving some aides working to figure out how to explain the suit that Daniels -- whose real name is Stephanie Clifford -- filed against Trump this week.
One frustrated White House official, who vented about how the situation has landed squarely in the laps of those who work in the White House, said the controversy is fully up to Cohen to address.
"It's Michael Cohen's mess," the exasperated official said.
Even as aides grapple with how to talk about this issue, Trump is taking no responsibility for the scandal, people familiar with the President's thinking said, highlighting how the tangled web of outside lawyers continues to complicate matters at the White House.
What remains less clear is how the controversy is being received in the East Wing of the White House, where Melania Trump spends much of her time away from public view.
She has quietly made her displeasure known at previous stories of potential marital misconduct -- riding separately to the State of the Union address, for example -- so it's an open question how she will react to this resurging storyline of Stormy Daniels.
No chaos, though
The growing story comes as Trump tries to declare that his White House is running at peak performance, not descending into the state of chaos portrayed in a slew of reports.
"The new Fake News narrative is that there is CHAOS in the White House," Trump tweeted on Tuesday. "Wrong!"
But in the days since his claim, the President has seen his economic advisers in deep disagreement over whether to level the new tough tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, his top economist quit over Trump's intention to move forward with the plan and the Daniels story balloon.
Cohen finds himself at the center of the controversy after weeks of denying that Trump had any knowledge of the payment the attorney made to Daniels in October 2016 to ensure her silence.
Cohen, in a statement last month, said he had paid Daniels without the knowledge of "the Trump Organization nor the Trump campaign ... and neither reimbursed me for the payment, either directly or indirectly."
Since that statement, though, Daniels' story has continued to balloon, with the porn actress speaking carefully to the media about her relationship with Trump.
Multiple former Trump campaign officials told CNN on Thursday that it isn't entirely surprising that Cohen would work to quell the Daniels fallout without express acknowledgment from Trump.
"Michael Cohen would walk across a pit of hot coals for Donald Trump, and it doesn't surprise me that he would do something on his own whether (Stormy Daniels) is telling the truth or not," a former campaign official said. "He's the most loyal person in Donald Trump's orbit that doesn't have the same DNA as Trump."
Whether or not Cohen paid Daniels without Trump's knowledge is a central question, given that acting on behalf of a client without that client knowing could be a violation of New York state bar rules.
Democrats and Daniels' attorneys have slammed Cohen's suggestion that he acted on his own, with the porn actress's lawyer writing in their suit that it "strains credulity to conclude that Mr. Cohen is acting on his own accord without the express approval and knowledge of his client Mr. Trump."
David Brock, a Democratic operative whose organization American Bridge has filed two complaints against Trump and Cohen over the Daniels saga, said Thursday that "the odds Trump and his lawyer conspired to break the law in the 2016 campaign increase with each new stomach-turning revelation."
"This scandal poses serious problems for Trump and the White House, which is why American Bridge is doubling down on our legal efforts," Brock said. "The FEC must investigate."
Nicholas Fortuna, founder and managing partner of the law firm Allyn & Fortuna, questioned Cohen's lawyering in the case.
"I really think this is a slow-moving train wreck for Trump in this case," Fortuna said, "because he is not going to have the opportunity to keep this quiet."
 Two questions here, as the Stormy Daniels story swirls into another news cycle: Does the President's personal life, much less this one's, really matter? And what would've happened on Election Day in 2016 if voters knew then what they might soon find out directly from Daniels?
The answers here are strictly subjective. But the second one is more interesting. One subjective take is that, no, it would have made absolutely no difference. I'd bet a lot of people agree. And that a lot of those people, for that reason, think the story should be ignored or treated as trashy gossip.
But that's missing the bigger issue. Whether or not one approves of Trump's alleged behavior, or thinks the efforts to keep it hush-hush affected the election, it's most certainly relevant to our politics. Even in this seemingly endless, dense thicket of news, we should be able to hold these competing ideas in our heads and not fall to pieces. (Or feel required to smash those who don't agree to pieces, metaphorically, on Twitter.)
On Capitol Hill, leading figures on both sides of the aisle have — for vastly different reasons — dismissed the story. House Speaker Paul Ryan, asked on Thursday if he thought allegations of hush money payments were a big deal, shrugged and said, "I haven't put in a second of thought into this. It's not on my radar screen." A day earlier, Sen. Bernie Sanders, on Instagram, suggested it wasn't a "real" issue. "There are other things going on besides Trump's alleged affair with a porn star," he wrote.
Sanders isn't wrong. But there's more to it.
The case for caring goes like this. If the legal allegations -- about the non disclosure agreement, etc. -- are true, then a close personal ally to and legal representative of the President lied and actively deceived a woman in an effort to advance or protect Trump's political prospects. It doesn't say much for Trump and his pals' treatment of women and less for their regard for federal law.
At a time when the White House is under fire for its apparently laissez-faire ethics standards, it seems especially weird to dismiss this story as a distraction. If anything (and, if proven) it offers some unique insight into how Trump and his close allies operate.
Much the same goes for Trump and the Russia probe. Do I, personally, expect that it will be revealed that Trump himself conspired or colluded with Moscow to hack or disseminate emails from the Clinton campaign and DNC? Probably not. (We will find out soon enough.) Politico's Blake Hounshell, in his "Confessions of a Russiagate Skeptic," makes the case pretty succinctly. Along those lines, I'm also skeptical that Russia ultimately swung the election to Trump. (Not a popular opinion these days!)
But to suggest that the investigation, and Trump's increasingly hysterical reaction to it, is a waste of reporters' time and ink, is folly. The result, despite how Trump clearly views it, is almost beside the point. The issue here is the integrity of the process. They are not, however, entirely inextricable.
Again, it's important -- even in these helter-skelter times -- not to confuse our desire to see a given story lower down on the list of priorities with believing (and insisting) that, no, it's not a story at all.
And with that, have you read the latest on Trump, Cohen and Stormy?

